Datapath

datapath: bagian yg melaksanakan operasi aritmetik, logika, memory.\
tanpa aanya control, datapath tidak dapatmelakukan apa apa.

datapaht = ALU.

================================================================
Control Unit
================================================================

The control unit gives the input to the selection line in the alu (datapath).
It also receives the output of the datapath, both the return values and the flags, 
then routes the information accordingly.

================================================================
Program Counter
================================================================

the program counter(PC) counts up and becomes the address of the currently executed instruction (with pipelining)
when the PC counts up, the Control Unit fetches the instruction at the address recorded at the PC, loads it into the Instruction Register (IR), 
before activating the select lines in the ALU according to the instruction (pipelining sold separately)

but, when acting upon the data used in the instruction, the control unit cant receive the data from the registers directly.
The control unit needs to prepare the registers used to store the data that will be acted or modified upon with the instruction.
These temporary Registers are called Read Registers. The amount of read registers prepared varies according to the type of the instruction (I, J, or R)

Comparison uses subtraction to compare the values.

The control unit uses the ALU to compute the address of the target data (when lw and sw)

Datapath is the component that acts upon values and does the computation.
Datapath is classified into:
1. Computation elements: Combinational logic that only depends on inputs
2. Storage elements: Sequential logic that needs to store an internal state (output depends on input and state)

<h1 style="color: blue; align: center"> Storage Elements </h1>

<h2>Register : JUST GO BACK TO PSD BABYYYYY :P </h2>
- Data in will only change the contents of the register upon a clock cycle if the write enable (WE) is active.
- Data out will show the current contents of the register
<h2>Memory</h2>
- The program counter will increment by 4 each tick, because each instruction requires 4 bytes, while the memory is byte addressed.
- There is an adder that functions to increment the PC by 4, but only writes the value back every 4 cycles at the rising edge.
- The memory can be imagined as an array of 8 bit parallel registers
- The cpu will send the address from the PC to the memory, and the memory will return the instruction stored in the address.





* _Supaya dapat dijalankan dengan baik. -> WOW! SUCH BOUNTIFUL WISDOM * (^ 0 ^) * IF ONLY I CAN COMPREHEND A FRACTION OF THIS SACRED KNOWLEDGE_


